+++
title = "Symposium S1: Integrative Plant Biology"
date = 2018-09-16T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2019-01-04T11:00:00
# time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "SICB"
event_url = "http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2019/"

# Location of event.
location = "Tampa, Florida"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
# tags = []

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_slides = "slides/example-slides"
# url_video = ""
# url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

{{% alert note %}}
Click on the **Slides** button above to view the built-in slides feature.
{{% /alert %}}

Slides can be added in a few ways:

- **Create** slides using Academic's *Slides* feature and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Upload** an existing slide deck to `static/` and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Embed** your slides (e.g. Google Slides) or presentation video on this page using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/).

Further talk details can easily be added to this page using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.
