+++
title = "Assimilation in silico and in practice: Open source computational tools for simulating CO2 assimilation and fitting models to data"
date = 2019-05-09T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2019-06-09
# time_end = 2030-06-01T15:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Gordon Research Conferences: CO2 Assimilation in Plants from Genome to Biome"
event_url = "https://www.grc.org/co2-assimilation-in-plants-from-genome-to-biome-conference/2019/"

# Location of event.
location = "Sunday River, Maine"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
# projects = ["deep-learning"]
projects = ["photosynthesis"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["phyteclub", "conferences"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_slides = "slides/example-slides"
# url_video = ""
# url_code = ""
url_pdf = "img/2019-06-09-grc-poster.pdf"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

Click the "PDF" link above to download the poster I'm presenting at the Gordon Research Conference: CO2 Assimilation in Plants from Genome to Biome. And if you're at the conference, please swing by!

I found this [site](https://www.animateyour.science/post/how-to-design-an-award-winning-conference-poster) especially helpful in designing my poster.