+++
title = "Ahupuaʻa: From the mountains to the ocean. Desde la montaña hasta el océano"
date = 2019-09-16T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2019-10-31T13:45:00
time_end = 2019-06-01T15:15:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "SACNAS"
event_url = "https://www.2019sacnas.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Honolulu, Hawaiʻi"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["photosynthesis"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["phyteclub", "conferences"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_slides = "slides/example-slides"
# url_video = ""
# url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
