+++
title = "licorer: Software to read and process LI-COR photosynthesis data files in R"
date = 2020-07-31T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2020-07-31T10:00:00
time_end = 2020-07-31T10:20:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["D Trupp", "CD Muir"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Measuring photosynthesis is important in a variety of fields, such as botany and agriculture, as there is much to be learned from it. Most scientists measure photosynthesis using a LI-COR system and then process their data in spreadsheet programs. Using spreadsheets to process and analyze LI-COR files can be inefficient and there are many opportunities for errors to arise, as LI-COR files can have lots of data. To reduce errors and streamline processing, we are designing an R package to avoid issues with data entry and modification. By reading information directly from the file, it ensures that all variables have correct units and are easy to access. This package will support reading in data and metadata from LI-6800 raw data files and will correctly assigns units. We piggyback from the already developed data analysis features in R to enhance data processing. We hope that by using R for their data processing, their results will be easily replicable with fewer mistakes."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "SURE"
event_url = "http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2020/"

# Location of event.
location = "Virtual"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["phyteclub"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["licorer", "phyteclub", "undergrad research"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_slides = "slides/example-slides"
# url_video = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/muir-lab/licorer"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
