+++
title = "Eons of pore decisions: how selection shapes the stomatal morphospace"
date = 2021-07-19T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2021-07-21T13:30:00
time_end = 2021-07-21T14:30:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The paleontologist David Raup introduced the concept of a morphospace, the theoretical limits on morphological variation among organisms. Organisms past and present rarely occupy all areas of their theoretical morphospace, but we rarely know why. Stomata, the mouths of plants, are among the most important innovations for multicellular plant life on land. The size, density, and patterning of stomata on a leaf form a low-dimensional, mathematically tractable morphospace that applies to most land plants. Major regions of this stomatal morphospace are empty or sparsely occupied. Why? One hypothesis is that leaf development constrains the production of certain phenotypes. An alternative hypothesis states that the adaptive landscape itself is constrained and certain areas of morphospace are empty because they are never favored by natural selection. Comparative and genetic observations show that empty or sparse regions of stomatal morphospace are developmentally accessible. Furthermore the distribution of phenotypes is consistent with a model in which the adaptive landscape prevents further expansion into empty regions of morphospace. In the future, I would like to see whether optimality models can unite macro- and microevolution of stomatal traits by predicting limits on the adaptive landscape and the direction of natural selection under realistic conditions."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "Botany"
event_url = "http://2021.botanyconference.org/"

# Location of event.
location = "Virtual"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = ["stomatal-evolution"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["stomata"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = ""
# url_slides = "slides/example-slides"
# url_video = "https://player.vimeo.com/video/441188744"
# url_code = "https://github.com/cdmuir/stomata-independence"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
