+++
title = "Technical comment on 'Negative-assortative mating for color in wolves'"
date = 2022-08-17T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Evolution*"
publication_short = "*Evolution*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Hedrick *et al* (2016) reported on 'negative-assortative mating for color in wolves' from Yellowstone National Park, the 'first documented case of significant negative-assortative mating in mammals.' Here I report a logical inconsistency in their population genetic model that effectively imposes selection against some assortatively mating genotype. After pointing out this inconsistency, I derive new expressions for the frequency of different matings and the equilibrium allele frequencies. Compared to Hedrick *et al.* (2016), the system rapidly approaches an equilibrium based on observed levels of negative-assortative mating in this population. Hence, the revised model may strengthen the case that assortative mating can maintain polymorphism and provides logically consistent results to  inform the study of nonrandom mating in other organisms."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
#   e.g. projects = ["example-external-project.md"]
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1093/evolut/qpac016"
url_preprint = "https://doi.org/10.32942/osf.io/mye2j"
url_code = "https://github.com/cdmuir/disassortative-mating"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Archive", url = "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7003312"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = ""
# caption = ""
# size = 200
+++
