+++
title = "A stomatal model of anatomical tradeoffs between gas exchange and pathogen colonization"
date = 2020-10-25T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["CD Muir"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Frontiers in Plant Science*"
publication_short = "*Front Plant Sci*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Stomatal pores control leaf gas exchange and are one route for infection of internal plant tissues by many foliar pathogens, setting up the potential for tradeoffs between photosynthesis and defense. Anatomical shifts to lower stomatal density and/or size may also limit pathogen colonization, but such developmental changes could permanently reduce the gas exchange capacity for the life of the leaf. I developed and analyzed a spatially explicit model of pathogen colonization on the leaf as a function of stomatal size and density, anatomical traits which partially determine maximum rates of gas exchange. The model predicts greater stomatal size or density increases the probability of colonization, but the effect is most pronounced when the fraction of leaf surface covered by stomata is low. I also derived scaling relationships between stomatal size and density that preserves a given probability of colonization. These scaling relationships set up a potential anatomical conflict between limiting pathogen colonization and minimizing the fraction of leaf surface covered by stomata. Although a connection between gas exchange and pathogen defense has been suggested empirically, this is the first mathematical model connecting gas exchange and pathogen defense via stomatal anatomy. A limitation of the model is that it does not include variation in innate immunity and stomatal closure in response to pathogens. Nevertheless, the model makes predictions that can be tested with experiments and may explain variation in stomatal size and density among plants. The model is generalizable to many types of pathogens, but lacks significant biological realism that may be needed for precise predictions."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
#   e.g. projects = ["example-external-project.md"]
projects = ["stomatal-evolution.md"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2020.518991"
url_preprint = "https://doi.org/10.1101/871228"
url_code = "https://github.com/cdmuir/stomata-tradeoff"
#url_dataset = "#"
#url_project = "#"
#url_slides = "#"
#url_video = "#"
#url_poster = "#"
#url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Archive", url = "https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4102283"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = ""
# caption = ""
# size = 200
+++
