+++
title = "A computational platform for plant ecophysiology in R"

date = 2019-05-13T00:00:00
lastmod = 2019-05-10T00:00:00
draft = true

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["plant physiology", "rstats", "tealeaves", "photosynthesis", "gunit"]
summary = "A computational platform for plant ecophysiology"
+++

SOMEWHERE: a rule of thumb is that if I'm struggling with something, probably lots of other people are too. I love discovering that someone came up with a tool that makes science easier and shares their solution as software. Hence, when I was struggling to use some plant ecophys models I needed for my research, I started to developing software to make it easier for me, and hopefully others as well.

I want to provide a brief update on work I've been doing lately to improve the computational toolkit for plant ecophysiologists, specifically using [R](https://cran.r-project.org). This is very much a work-in-progress, but since I've recently released the first R packages related to this work on CRAN (see [here](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=gunit), [here](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=tealeaves), and [here](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=photosynthesis)), so I wanted to write a short-ish post explaining my motivation and how these packages fit into the big-picture changes I would like to make in plant ecophysiology and its integration with evolutionary biology.

# Motivation

I'm fundamentally interested in adaptation. How well are organisms adapted to their environment? What traits underlie adaptation to different environments? An essay I recently discovered by [Mark Olson and Alfonso Arroyo-Santos (2015)](https://doi.org/10.1086/681438) makes a persuasive case that studying adaptation requires integration of three approaches that they label: comparative, population, and optimality. I recommend you read it yourself! Here I want to focus on the last approach, optimality. Very basically, optimality models work by making some assumption about what organismal functions maximize fitness and then figuring out what traits optimize that function in a given environment. In plant physiology, a classic optimality model involves finding the stomatal conductance that optimally balances photosynthesis and water loss (Tom Buckey, Lawren Sack, and Graham Farquhar summarize nicely summarize the state of stomatal optimization models in [this paper](https://doi.org/10.1111/pce.12823)). I won't belabor the details here, but the basic idea is that plants benefit from getting carbon through photosynthesis by opening their stomata but this causes them to lose water that has some carbon costs in terms of growing roots and transporting that water from roots to leaves. One could add additional factors, like nitrogen, that have a cost of acquisition and a benefit by going into enzymes that catalyze photosynthetic reactions. The upshot is that optimality models require some kind of model about how plants work in different environments: how do different plant traits affect their photosynthetic rate, water loss, and so on? They also require some assumptions about costs. What is the cost, in terms of carbon gained from photosynthetic, of acquiring more water, nitrogen, and so forth?

It turns out there are lots of physical and chemical models of plant function that can be used to predict the optimal trait values in different environments. For example, see Park Nobel's masterpiece [Physicochemical and Environmental Plant Physiology](https://www.elsevier.com/books/physicochemical-and-environmental-plant-physiology/nobel/978-0-12-374143-1). This is what got me into plant physiology in the first place. But I was frustrated that when it came down to actually using these models in my research, there were few computational tools to help. Furthermore, papers often didn't provide enough detail to replicate their results.

[maybe show tweet here about motivation for tealeaves?]

In evolutionary biology, it's become fairly standard for researchers who develop new methods to release an R package implementing that method. For whatever reason, it's not the same in plant physiology. I think this really hampers dissemenation of computational methods and models to others. You either have to adapt Excel sheets or scripts from other researchers or try to implement the model *de novo*. I took the latter approach because either models I wanted to use were from old papers whose authors were not currently available to email or because the scripts were in something like an Excel sheet which is not conducive to reproducible science. And since I was making robust code that could implement complex plant physiology models for my own work, I realized it wouldn't be that much more work to make these tools available to others through R packages. My hope is that these packages, along with future improvements and extensions, make it easier to overcome the activiation energy to using these models.

# Current status

So far I've released three packages that have a narrow focus which I hope they achieve reasonably well.

1. [{gunit}](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=gunit): This simply converts conductance (e.g. stomatal conductance) to different units. I found I was doing this a lot. Everytime I questioned whether I was doing it right, panicked that my whole career was a sham and I am a fraud, then came to the correct answer I'd derived a few weeks earlier. This was my way of writing down my work so I wouldn't repeat myself again in a few weeks.
2. {tealeaves}
3. {photosynthesis}
# where I want to g


OLD

I'm excited to release the first lab "product", an R package called `tealeaves` that models leaf temperature by balancing leaf energy budgets. The name originates from the fact that leaf temperature is often abbreviated $T_\text{leaf}$ (said "tee leaf"). I won't delve into the details of leaf energy balance here, suffice to say, it can get complex. If you want to learn more about the package and start using it right away, check out the [GitHub](https://github.com/cdmuir/tealeaves) repo. Please note that this package is a **work in progress** and will be updated regularly over the next couple months. In this post, I'll briefly go over my motivation for developing this package and extol some of its virtues.

## Motivation

This package is one part of a larger suite of packages I'm developing to model leaf traits, photosynthesis, and organismal performance/fitness across environmental gradients. Leaf temperature is a key part of that because gas exchange, photosynthesis, repspiration, etc. are all temperature sensitive processes. And leaf temperature can change dramatically across gradients of air temperature, irradiance, wind speed, humidity, etc. Because leaf temperature affects physiology and is effected by the environment, it's central to modeling the relationship between plant and climate. However, the tools to model leaf temperature in R are pretty limited, so I decided I needed to develop my own^[Remko Duursma's [`plantecophys`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/plantecophys/index.html) package also models leaf temperature, but doesn't have all the features I needed].

## Advantages

The concept for this package is that it simply does one thing (model leaf temperature) well and almost nothing else. In a perfect world, you supply parameters to one or two functions and retrieve a tidy data.frame with everything you need for further analysis. Other than hopefully creating an easy R interface for leaf temperature, `tealeaves` has three advantageous features I haven't seen in other package:

- It uses the R packages [`units`](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/units/index.html) to ensure that all parameters are specified and calculated properly. If nothing else, this helps catch errors in the equations, as most errors will totally mess up the units. It also disambiguates calculations. For example, if you see something like:

```{r bad, echo = TRUE, eval = FALSE}

# VPD is vapour pressure deficit in kPa
VPD <- 1.5
1000 * VPD

```

Does this mean that VPD is being multiple by 1000 or that you are simply changing units from kPa to Pa? It's hard to tell, but `units` makes it unambiguous:

```{r good, echo = TRUE, eval = FALSE}

VPD <- set_units(1.5, "kPa")

# Multiply VPD by 1000
set_units(1000) * VPD

# Convert VPD by Pa
VPD %<>% set_units("Pa")

```

- `tealeaves` allows boundary layer conductances to heat and water vapour to vary between lower and upper leaf surfaces. This is important because leaf surfaces are often not identical, nor are the microclimates surrounding them. For example, stomatal conductance may be partitioned evenly between surfaces, or all on one surface, or somewhere in between. 

- `tealeaves` uses the `tidyr::crossing` function to easily creating (multiple) environmental and/or trait gradients over which to model leaf temperature. 

## Help!

This package is a work in progress and I would greatly appreciate comments and criticisms. At this time, I don't recommend using the package for serious analysis without carefully inspecting results. However, I hope that by releasing it, I will be able to work out bugs soon and provide a reliable, stable version in the near future.
