content/post/2020-04-05-biol470-april06-10-schedule.md, before:

+++
title = "BIOL 470: Schedule for week of April 6-10"

date = 2020-04-05T00:00:00
lastmod = 2020-04-06T13:45:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["biol470", "teaching"]
summary = "Finish \"From Genes to Traits\" and start special section on phylogenetic comparative methods"
+++

## Announcements

* You should have been notified over the weekend about a class folder on Google Drive. This is where you will turn in assignments. Please let me know ASAP if you are having problems accessing this folder.

* Inside your folder is your graded Midterm Exam 2. Don't forget that the answer key is in Laulima under Resources/exam2-results.pdf. Check that before asking me why you didn't get credit for a question.

* As far as I can tell, everyone now has a partner for the class project. You will work together this week to enter data as part of our phylogenetic comparative project on stomatal evolution. Please let me know if you *do not* have a partner.

## Assignments:

* Participate in Laulima discussion on Historical Contingency in Evolution by  **Tuesday, April 7** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Historical contingency in evolution"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion1' width='600' src='/img/laulima-discussion1.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

* Class project: Enter data for class project by **Wednesday, April 8 @ 11:59 PM HST** (keep reading below for more detail). I will be lenient on the deadline if there are technical challenges, but don't delay in getting started.

## Readings:

* Emlen & Zimmer, Chapter 9

* Primary literature (read one or both and contribute to Laulima discussion):

  - Blount *et al*. 2008. [Historical Contingency and the Evolution of a Key Innovation in an Experimental Population of *Escherichia coli*](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0803151105). *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA* 105 (23):7899–906.
  - Blount *et al*. 2012. [Genomic Analysis of a Key Innovation in an Experimental *Escherichia coli* Population](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11514). *Nature* 489:513–8.

* Reading on Phylogenetic Comparative Methods (I will post later this week)

## Schedule

Note that on Wednesday, class will meet synchronously on Google Meet [meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy](https://meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy). Class will be recorded and posted online if you are unable to attend. Remaining instruction will be asynchronous, meaning you can work at your own pace and desired time.

In general, I strongly recommend attending synchronous meetings if you can. I also recommend establishing routine times that you work on asynchronous assignments. A routine will help you develop good work habits, keep you engaged in the class, and prevent you from having to cram later.

### Monday, April 5 - asynchronous

**Participate in Laulima discussion!!**

* Start working on data entry for class project. It should not take more than an hour, perhaps much less.

  - Papers and datasheets (with written instructions) are in your Google Drive folder
  - I will send more detailed instructions on Monday.
  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* *Watch* pre-recorded lecture on evo-devo

  - I will post this Monday afternoon and notify you

### Wednesday, April 8 - synchronous, join Google Meeting

* We will finish our section on Genes to Traits with a guest lecture from [Dr. Stacey Dewitt Smith](https://www.colorado.edu/smithlab/) and [Dr. Luke Wheeler](https://lcwheeler.github.io/) talking about their research on how metabolic pathways shape adaptive evolution.

  - Their slides will be posted on Laulima after class

* Go over progress with class project integrating phylogenies, evo-devo, and adaptation 

  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* Answer some questions about historical contigency from Laulima discussion board

### Friday, April 10 - asynchronous

* I will post readings/video for Friday later in the week.

* Midterm Exam 3 will be distributed. You will have 1 week to complete at home.

Commit message:

added link to first video on biol470 class project

content/post/2020-04-05-biol470-april06-10-schedule.md, after:

+++
title = "BIOL 470: Schedule for week of April 6-10"

date = 2020-04-05T00:00:00
lastmod = 2020-04-06T16:45:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["biol470", "teaching"]
summary = "Finish \"From Genes to Traits\" and start special section on phylogenetic comparative methods"
+++

## Announcements

* You should have been notified over the weekend about a class folder on Google Drive. This is where you will turn in assignments. Please let me know ASAP if you are having problems accessing this folder.

* Inside your folder is your graded Midterm Exam 2. Don't forget that the answer key is in Laulima under Resources/exam2-results.pdf. Check that before asking me why you didn't get credit for a question.

* As far as I can tell, everyone now has a partner for the class project. You will work together this week to enter data as part of our phylogenetic comparative project on stomatal evolution. Please let me know if you *do not* have a partner.

## Assignments:

* Participate in Laulima discussion on Historical Contingency in Evolution by  **Tuesday, April 7** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Historical contingency in evolution"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion1' width='600' src='/img/laulima-discussion1.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

* Class project: Enter data for class project by **Wednesday, April 8 @ 11:59 PM HST** (keep reading below for more detail). I will be lenient on the deadline if there are technical challenges, but don't delay in getting started.

## Readings:

* Emlen & Zimmer, Chapter 9

* Primary literature (read one or both and contribute to Laulima discussion):

  - Blount *et al*. 2008. [Historical Contingency and the Evolution of a Key Innovation in an Experimental Population of *Escherichia coli*](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0803151105). *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA* 105 (23):7899–906.
  - Blount *et al*. 2012. [Genomic Analysis of a Key Innovation in an Experimental *Escherichia coli* Population](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11514). *Nature* 489:513–8.

* Reading on Phylogenetic Comparative Methods (I will post later this week)

## Schedule

Note that on Wednesday, class will meet synchronously on Google Meet [meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy](https://meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy). Class will be recorded and posted online if you are unable to attend. Remaining instruction will be asynchronous, meaning you can work at your own pace and desired time.

In general, I strongly recommend attending synchronous meetings if you can. I also recommend establishing routine times that you work on asynchronous assignments. A routine will help you develop good work habits, keep you engaged in the class, and prevent you from having to cram later.

### Monday, April 5 - asynchronous

**Participate in Laulima discussion!!**

* Start working on data entry for class project. It should not take more than an hour, perhaps much less.

  - Papers and datasheets (with written instructions) are in your Google Drive folder
  - *Watch* [video](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1YtzftzSahVujB-hY5nfHsBob6z7a87wL) describing project with instructions for data entry
  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* *Watch* pre-recorded lecture on evo-devo

  - I will post this Monday afternoon or Tuesday morning and notify you

### Wednesday, April 8 - synchronous, join Google Meeting

* We will finish our section on Genes to Traits with a guest lecture from [Dr. Stacey Dewitt Smith](https://www.colorado.edu/smithlab/) and [Dr. Luke Wheeler](https://lcwheeler.github.io/) talking about their research on how metabolic pathways shape adaptive evolution.

  - Their slides will be posted on Laulima after class

* Go over progress with class project integrating phylogenies, evo-devo, and adaptation 

  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* Answer some questions about historical contigency from Laulima discussion board

### Friday, April 10 - asynchronous

* I will post readings/video for Friday later in the week.

* Midterm Exam 3 will be distributed. You will have 1 week to complete at home.
