+++
title = "BIOL 470: Schedule for week of May 4-9"

date = 2020-05-04T00:00:00
lastmod = 2020-05-05T20:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["biol470", "teaching", "human evolution"]
summary = "Human Evolution! Last week of of class!"
+++

## Announcements

* **No Final Exam.** The overwhelming majority (>90%) of the class felt strongly that they would prefer to not take the final exam and instead use the grade from their best midterm in its place. Thanks everyone for your input.

## Assignments:

* [Homework 1](https://forms.gle/7MUwSg3c623Zrmqz7) on Human Evolution due **Monday, May 4 @ 11:59PM HST**

* [Homework 2](https://forms.gle/qLkaV5t3BwjTcCwL9) on Human Evolution due **Thursday, May 7 @ 11:59PM HST**, however I won't penalize you if you need more time and submit answers on Friday. I won't accept new or edited answers after Friday, May 8.

## Readings:

* Emlen & Zimmer, Chapter 17 *Human Evolution*

## Schedule

Note that on Wednesday, class will meet synchronously on Google Meet [meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy](https://meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy). Class will be recorded and posted online if you are unable to attend. Remaining instruction will be asynchronous, meaning you can work at your own pace and desired time.

### Monday, May 4 - asynchronous

* *Watch* recorded lectures on Human Evolution and Class Project on Phylogenetic Comparitive Methods

  - [Human Evolution lecture](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FjBTcOpQy2PxG-l4KwbTvehpCdxajag1/view?usp=sharing)

### Wednesday, May 6 - synchronous, join Google Meeting

* Last Day of Class!!! We will wrap up our section on Human Evolution and class project on Phylogenetic Comparative Methods.
