content/post/2020-03-29-biol470-march30-april03-schedule.md, before:

+++
title = "BIOL 470: Schedule for week of March 30-April 3"

date = 2020-03-29T00:00:00
lastmod = 2020-04-02T16:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["biol470", "teaching"]
summary = "Finish phylogenetics and start of \"From Genes to Traits\""
+++

## Announcements

I found a student worker to scan your graded Midterm Exam 2. I will deliver those to you securely as soon as they are done, but it might take a few days.

## Assignments:

* Participate in Laulima discussion on COVID-19 evolution videos and reading by  **Wednesday, April 1** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Phylogenetics and COVID-19 readings"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion' width='300' src='/img/laulima-discussion.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

* Find partner(s) for class project by **Friday, April 3 @ 11:59 PM HST** (keep reading below for more detail).

* Participate in Laulima discussion on historical contigency in evolution by  **Tuesday, April 7** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Historical contingency in evolution"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion1' width='450' src='/img/laulima-discussion1.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

## Readings:

* Emlen & Zimmer, Chapter 9

* Primary literature (read one or both and contribute to Laulima discussion):

  - Blount *et al*. 2008. [Historical Contingency and the Evolution of a Key Innovation in an Experimental Population of *Escherichia coli*](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0803151105). *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA* 105 (23):7899–906.
  - Blount *et al*. 2012. [Genomic Analysis of a Key Innovation in an Experimental *Escherichia coli* Population](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11514). *Nature* 489:513–8.

## Schedule

Note that on Wednesday, class will meet synchronously on Google Meet [meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy](https://meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy). Class will be recorded and posted online if you are unable to attend. Remaining instruction will be asynchronous, meaning you can work at your own pace and desired time.

In general, I strongly recommend attending synchronous meetings if you can. I also recommend establishing routine times that you work on asynchronous assignments. A routine will help you develop good work habits, keep you engaged in the class, and prevent you from having to cram later.

### Monday, March 30 - asynchronous

**Participate in Laulima discussion!!**

* *Watch* pre-recorded lectures on phylogenetics

  - [Gene trees and the coalescent](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XMvwHcA9pPkynzVVKAOAi2jOIxbY2D7H/view?usp=sharing)
  - [Multispecies coalescent and phylogenetic inference](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fE18hmT4n9qPTut_Hxhm4qpqpnXqpu5c/view?usp=sharing)

### Wednesday, April 1 - synchronous, join Google Meeting

* We will finish phylogenetics with a guest lecture from [Dr. Matt Hahn](https://hahnlab.sitehost.iu.edu/) talking about his reseach on using the multispecies coalescent to infer phylogenies in wild tomatoes!

  - Dr. Hahn's slides will be posted on Laulima after class

* Go over class project integrating phylogenies, evo-devo, and adaptation 

  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* Answer some questions about COVID-19 evolution from Laulima discussion board

* *Read* Chapter 9 of Emlen and Zimmer

### Friday, April 3 - asynchronous

* Fill out [form](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) for partners on class project by today

* *Read* papers by Blount *et al.* on Long Term Evolution Evolution (LTEE).

  - Links above, PDF copies are available on Laulima under Resources/primary-literature
  
* *Watch* pre-recorded lectures on the From Genes to Traits: Evolution of Genetic Networks and Development (link posted Friday morning)

Commit message:

posted link to gene duplication lecture

content/post/2020-03-29-biol470-march30-april03-schedule.md, after:

+++
title = "BIOL 470: Schedule for week of March 30-April 3"

date = 2020-03-29T00:00:00
lastmod = 2020-04-03T19:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Chris Muir"]

math = true

tags = ["biol470", "teaching"]
summary = "Finish phylogenetics and start of \"From Genes to Traits\""
+++

## Announcements

I found a student worker to scan your graded Midterm Exam 2. I will deliver those to you securely as soon as they are done, but it might take a few days.

## Assignments:

* Participate in Laulima discussion on COVID-19 evolution videos and reading by  **Wednesday, April 1** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Phylogenetics and COVID-19 readings"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion' width='300' src='/img/laulima-discussion.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

* Find partner(s) for class project by **Friday, April 3 @ 11:59 PM HST** (keep reading below for more detail).

* Participate in Laulima discussion on historical contigency in evolution by  **Tuesday, April 7** @ 11:59 PM HST.

  - Go to Laulima, click "Discussion and Private Messages", then "Class Discussions". Post under "Historical contingency in evolution"

<img alt = 'laulima-discussion1' width='450' src='/img/laulima-discussion1.png' ALIGN = 'center'/>

## Readings:

* Emlen & Zimmer, Chapter 9

* Primary literature (read one or both and contribute to Laulima discussion):

  - Blount *et al*. 2008. [Historical Contingency and the Evolution of a Key Innovation in an Experimental Population of *Escherichia coli*](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0803151105). *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA* 105 (23):7899–906.
  - Blount *et al*. 2012. [Genomic Analysis of a Key Innovation in an Experimental *Escherichia coli* Population](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature11514). *Nature* 489:513–8.

## Schedule

Note that on Wednesday, class will meet synchronously on Google Meet [meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy](https://meet.google.com/qip-dcci-fjy). Class will be recorded and posted online if you are unable to attend. Remaining instruction will be asynchronous, meaning you can work at your own pace and desired time.

In general, I strongly recommend attending synchronous meetings if you can. I also recommend establishing routine times that you work on asynchronous assignments. A routine will help you develop good work habits, keep you engaged in the class, and prevent you from having to cram later.

### Monday, March 30 - asynchronous

**Participate in Laulima discussion!!**

* *Watch* pre-recorded lectures on phylogenetics

  - [Gene trees and the coalescent](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XMvwHcA9pPkynzVVKAOAi2jOIxbY2D7H/view?usp=sharing)
  - [Multispecies coalescent and phylogenetic inference](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fE18hmT4n9qPTut_Hxhm4qpqpnXqpu5c/view?usp=sharing)

### Wednesday, April 1 - synchronous, join Google Meeting

* We will finish phylogenetics with a guest lecture from [Dr. Matt Hahn](https://hahnlab.sitehost.iu.edu/) talking about his reseach on using the multispecies coalescent to infer phylogenies in wild tomatoes!

  - Dr. Hahn's slides will be posted on Laulima after class

* Go over class project integrating phylogenies, evo-devo, and adaptation 

  - This [post](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) describes class project and due dates

* Answer some questions about COVID-19 evolution from Laulima discussion board

* *Read* Chapter 9 of Emlen and Zimmer

### Friday, April 3 - asynchronous

* Fill out [form](https://cdmuir.netlify.com/post/2020-04-01-biol470-class-project) for partners on class project by today

* *Read* papers by Blount *et al.* on Long Term Evolution Evolution (LTEE).

  - Links above, PDF copies are available on Laulima under Resources/primary-literature
  
* *Watch* pre-recorded lectures on the From Genes to Traits: Evolution of Genetic Networks and Development 

  - Sorry, I didn't finish this until Friday evening, but it is now posted [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1OdQj1KLiESVtx6EqoXtpqDGxNxkdcX2L)
