content/teaching/hawaii-26/index.md, before:

---
title: "BOT 575: Plant ecophysiology and adaptive radiation in Hawaiʻi"
subtitle: "Optional subtitle"
summary: "One–two sentence teaser for the card."
date: 2025-10-06
lastmod: 2025-10-06
draft: false

authors: ["admin"]
tags: ["Hawaii", "Teaching"]
categories: ["Teaching"]

# Control ordering within the list (lower = higher)
weight: 0

# Send the card somewhere else instead of opening this page
# external_link: "https://example.com"

# Thumbnail for the card (file lives beside this index.md)
# image:
#   alt_text: "Descriptive alt text for accessibility"
#   caption: "Photo credit, if needed"
#   focal_point: Smart       # Smart | Center | Top | Bottom | etc.
#   placement: 1             # 1 = wide, 2 = float (theme-dependent)
#   preview_only: false

# Optional buttons (Hugo-Blox/Wowchemy pattern used on project pages)
links:
  # - icon: file
  #   icon_pack: fas
  #   name: "Syllabus"
  #   url: "/files/syllabus.pdf"
  # - icon: github
  #   icon_pack: fab
  #   name: "Repo"
  #   url: "https://github.com/…"

# Put any custom fields you want to surface in the card or page
params:
  role: "Instructor"
  term: "Spring 2026"
  location: "UW–Madison"
---

**Info session**: Thursday, Oct 9 @ 4:30 PM in Birge 158 and on Zoom (link coming soon)

I will add more information here, so check back soon.

Commit message:

adding info to hawaii page

content/teaching/hawaii-26/index.md, after:

---
title: "BOT 575: Plant ecophysiology and adaptive radiation in Hawaiʻi"
subtitle: "Spring 2026"
summary: "Field course in January 2026 to Kauaʻi and Hawaiʻi Island"
date: 2025-10-06
lastmod: 2025-10-06
draft: false

authors: ["admin"]
tags: ["Hawaii", "Teaching"]
categories: ["Teaching"]

# Control ordering within the list (lower = higher)
weight: 0

# Send the card somewhere else instead of opening this page
# external_link: "https://example.com"

# Thumbnail for the card (file lives beside this index.md)
# image:
#   alt_text: "Descriptive alt text for accessibility"
#   caption: "Photo credit, if needed"
#   focal_point: Smart       # Smart | Center | Top | Bottom | etc.
#   placement: 1             # 1 = wide, 2 = float (theme-dependent)
#   preview_only: false

# Optional buttons (Hugo-Blox/Wowchemy pattern used on project pages)
links:
  - icon: file
    icon_pack: fas
    name: "Flier"
    url: "bot575_sp2026_Muir-Hawaii-info.jpg"
  # - icon: github
  #   icon_pack: fab
  #   name: "Repo"
  #   url: "https://github.com/…"

# Put any custom fields you want to surface in the card or page
params:
  role: "Instructor"
  term: "Spring 2026"
  location: "UW–Madison"
---

**Info session**: Thursday, Oct 9 @ 4:30 PM in Birge 158 and on [Zoom](https://uwmadison.zoom.us/j/97745780276) (you must be signed into your wisc.edu account to join on Zoom).

Please fill out this [form](https://forms.gle/x8SBh8V5KfKC9Es87) if you are interested in enrolling. I will email you updates about the application process and other news.

I will add more information here, so check back soon.
